Programming Background
================
Mark Austin
Post Due 9/14/2021

## R and Other Software

-   R compared to other software I’ve used?

Before this class, my R experience was limited to R simulation work in
the first semester statistical theory class. I’ve had much more
experience with SAS at the level where I was able to earn SAS
certifications. I’ve also worked with Perl, PHP, Python, JMP,
PowerShell, and other software over the years. My experience with R so
far is that R has the flexibility of Python along with the very helpful
object design. I’ve found working with objects for basic tasks more
intuitive than less flexible languages like SAS. When using SAS,
sometimes simple logic had to be implemented in complex macros because
SAS was inflexible. In contrast, with R my experience so far has been
that simple logic has had simple implementation. Another huge advantage
R has over SAS is that R is easy to install and run. I’ve installed SAS
in the past and that process was much more complex than installs with R
or other software.

-   What do you like about R functionality?

R’s biggest strength so far has been the integration of R Markdown with
R Studio allowing for straightforward production of high quality output
in multiple formats. In that sense, R seems to have a more complete
ecosystem available for getting day to day work accomplished in an
efficient manner than other languages.

-   What do you miss about another language?

The biggest part I miss about SAS compared to R is that most of SAS code
has been easier to read and follow because SAS code can only be coded a
certain way or just a few ways whereas with R there are so many ways to
code that it can be hard to keep up with all the nuances and ways people
might code. This issue mainly comes up when trying to read or run other
people’s code. My experience has been that very few people adequately
comment or document their code. I’ve worked with a lot of SAS programs
over the years and would estimate fewer than 5% were hard for me to
follow based on the SAS code. With R code I’ve found myself needing to
look things up more often than I did with SAS code.

-   Do you consider R a hard language to learn?

R has been the type of language that is easy to get started but much
more challenging to master. My prior experience with Perl and Python has
helped facilitate R learning. Given that SAS itself invests a lot in
training resources, I found it straightforward to use those resources
and focus on a certain learning path that eventually led to SAS
certification. With R the volume of available information can make it
harder to focus. One of the main benefits of this class so far has been
having a coherent learning path that builds on itself to help develop
positive R foundation experiences.

## Example R Markdown Output

``` r
plot(iris)
```

![](../images/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png)<!-- -->
